# Human-Activity-Recognition-using-smartphone-dataset
Human Activity Recognition using smartphone  dataset : Data Classification and analysis using different Machine learning Technique like Decision Tree, K-Nearest Neighbour, Gussian Naive Bayes, Logistics Regression,Support Vector Machine, NLP Classifier.  Principal companat anlysis and Extra tree based Feature selection and final result comparison with and without feature selection 

# Problem Statement:
In an era of growing data complexity and volume, feature selection and construction techniquesplay   a   key   role   in   understanding   our   data   in   helping   reduce   the   dimensionality   and   improvelearnability   in   data   analytics   problems.   Both   for   data   and   big   data   processing   and   analyticsfeature   selection   techniques   are   important   for   reducing   the   time   required   to   build   machinelearning   models   and   improving   the   performance   of   these   algorithms.   Moreover,   principalcomponent   analysis   is   an   important   algorithm   used   in   data   and   big   data   processing   for   thepurpose of data visualisation, as well as for dimensionality reduction and for gaining insight in theknowledge hidden in the data.For this a dataset (Human Activity Recognition using Smartphone dataset link: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) and defined the classification problems, selected the dataset and performed the following tasks:
1. Define the training and testing set for your dataset.
2. Implement   neural   network   and   one   other   classification   algorithm   of   your   choice   and compare the performance for the dataset you choose.
3. Apply Principal Component Analysis to the dataset and explain its outcome. How does the number of principal components affect the percentage of variance covered for thisdataset?
4. Apply any feature selection method of your choice and compare the performance using any   one   algorithm   used   in   question   2   before   and   after   applying   the   feature   selection algorithm.
5. Discuss the challenges and implications regarding the time required to build the requiredmodels. Compare the times with and without feature selection method.
6. Also performed the tests on the test data set to evaluate the results. Used the AUC (area under curve) and accuracy as a metric for comparing the performance. 
